Beth: I am not putting my father in a home! He just came back into my life, and you want to... grab him and... stuff him under a mattress like last month's Victoria's Secret?!
Jerry: I told you, I was ordering you something for Valentine's Day. More importantly, your father is a horrible influence on our son! [a hunky vet stops by]
Davin: Everything cool in here, Beth?
Beth: It's fine, Davin.
Davin: Okay, cool. Y'know, we did something great today. There's nothing more noble and free than the heart of a horse.
[beat, Jerry closes door]
Jerry: Since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy, I will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies. 
%
Morty: Holy cow, Rick! I didn't know hanging out with you was making me smarter!
Rick: Full disclosure, Morty — it's not. Temporary superintelligence is just a side effect of the Megaseeds dissolving in your rectal cavity.
Morty: Aw, man!
Rick: Yeah. And once those seeds weahh-wear off, you're gonna lose most of your motor skills and... you're also gonna lose a significant amount of brain functionality for 72 hours, Morty. [checks arm watches] Starting ruh-ight about now.
Morty: Ohh, man! Ohh, ohhh geez!! Ohh... [falls down]
Rick: I'm sorry, Morty. It's a bummer. In reality, you're as dumb as they come. And I needed those seeds real bad and I have to give 'em up just to get your parents off my back! So now we're gonna have to go get more! And then we're gonna go on even more adventures after that, Morty. And you're gonna keep your mouth shut about it, Morty! Because the world is full of idiots that don't understand what's important, and they'll tear us apart, Morty! But if you stick with me, I'm gonna accomplish great things, Morty, and you're gonna be part of 'em. And together we're gonna run around, Morty, we're gonna- do all of kinds of wonderful things, Morty. Just you and me, Morty.
Morty: [gurgling] No, no, no....
Rick: The outside world is our enemy, Morty! We're the only fehh-friends we got, Morty! It's just Rick and Morty! Ruh-ick and Morty and their adventures, Morty! Rick and Morty forever and forever, 100 years, Rick and Morty's things! Me and Rick and Morty running around and... Rick and Morty time! All day long, forever... all- a hundred days! Rick and Morty forever a hundred times! Over and over, rickandmortyadventures.com. Www.rickandmorty.com. Www.rickandmortyadventures. All 100 years. Every minute, rickandmorty.com. [closing garage door inside]
%

Rick: Boy, you're really gonna flip your lid over this one.
Morty: Oh, w-wh... what is it?
Rick: It's a device, Morty, that when you put it in your ear, you can enter people's dreams, Morty. It's just like that movie you keep crowing about!
Morty: You're talking about Inception?
Rick: That's right, Morty! This is gonna be a lot like that, expect y'know, it's gonna me-beh... make sense.
Morty: Inception made sense!
Rick: You don't have to try and impress me, Morty!
%

Rick: Allah euuh... Akbar! We're gonna take control of this plane! We're gonna 9/11 it unless Morty Smith gets better grades in math! [Goldenfold gets up] Hey! I said nobody move, buddy!
Goldenfold: The name's not Buddy. It's Goldenfold. Nice to wheat you! Hah-hah-huh! [throws wheat thins at Rick and Morty]
Rick: Take cover, Morty!! [Goldenfold open fires with twin assault rifles]
Goldenfold: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!!
Morty: Oooh!!
Rick: Goldenfold's got more control than I anticipated! I mean, the guy teaches high-school math! Eurggh... I-I-I-I didn't take him for an active dreamer! We gotta take him out so he wakes up, Morty! Be we can't get killed! If you get killed in someone else's dream, you die for REAL, Morty!
Morty: What?!! Are you kidding me?! OHHHHHH..!!
Rick: Don't be a baby! You avoid getting shot in real life all the time, Morty! Just do the same thing here and we'll be fine!
%
Snuffles: Where are my testicles, Summer? They were removed. Where have they gone?
%

Centaur: Sexual hangups in the pleasure chamber are punishable by DEATH!!! OFF WITH THEIR HEADS!!!
%
Scary Terry: Welcome to your nightmare, bitch! RAHR!!
Rick/Morty: Oh, here we go! / OHHHHH!!!
Morty: Holy crap!!
Rick: Looks like some sort of legally safe knockoff of an '80s horror character with miniature swords for fingers instead of knives!
Scary Terry: I'm Scary Terry!! You can run but you can't hide, bitch!
%
[moments before Morty's waiter Fido gets knocked out by Rick]
Morty: Rick! I thought you were dead!
Rick: No, no, no, I was just playing dead. Good news though, Morty, this whole thing's gonna be over really soon.
Morty: What?
Rick: It's a dream, Morty! We're in your dog's dream. The night the dogs captured us, after you cried and crapped your pants, we-we all went to sleep. Then I used my dream inceptors to put the two of us inside Snuffles' dream.
Morty: But... i-it's been like a whole year!
Rick: It's been six hours. Dreams move one... one-hundredth the speed of reality, and dog time is one-seventh human time. So y'know, every day here is like a minute. It's like Inception, Morty, so if it's confusing and stupid, then so is everyone's favorite movie.
Morty: Aw, man! I really liked this life! Well, at least I didn't really crap my pants.
Rick: No, no, that happened before you went to sleep, Morty. You're sleeping in your crap right now. [Morty's girls leave him, disgusted] Out of all the things that happened to you, that was the only real thing that—y'know—is that you crapped your pants. I mean, it's a mess out there. I got some on my hands, Morty. And then I got it on the dream inceptor and a piece fell in my mouth.
Morty: Aw, man! Geez, seriously?!
Rick: Look, d-d-d-don't worry about it, Morty. Here — just take these, Morty. Take these.
Morty: [gulp] Are these pills supposed to wake me up or something?
Rick: Close. It's gonna make your kidneys shut down.
Morty: WHAT?!!
Rick: It's necessary for the plan, Morty. Don't even trip, dawg.
%
Rick: Oh, unbelievable. We got— we got a bunch of robot... computer people sitting around with their... faces stuffed in their computer screens. Do you guys realize that Christ was born today? Jesus Christ, our savior, was born today! Ar-ar-are you people even human? What kind of Christmas is this?
%
Poncho: [throttles Morty] Who are you?! Answer me! Where'd you come from?!
Morty: My-my-my grandpa Rick sent me!
Bloom: Poncho! That's quite enough. [Poncho drops him down] Morty, that's Poncho. This is Roger and Annie. [closeup on Annie]
Morty: Whoa...
Bloom: And I am Dr. Xenon Bloom.
Morty: Uh— [a miniature speaker pops out of the neck of his helmet]
Rick: [via speaker] "Hey, Bloom, it's Rick. What the hell's going on here?"
Bloom: I don't know why, but the entire security system has shut down, and I'm afraid... the exhibits are unlocked.
Morty: Exhibits? [the group walk out of the Haunted Liver]
Bloom: Anatomy Park's greatest attraction, young man, isn't the music or the food or the... Pirates of the Pancreas.
Rick: "Watch it!"
Bloom: It is, first and foremost, a living museum of humanity's most noble and ferocious diseases.
Morty: Diseases?! [ominous growling is heard]
Poncho: Hey, Doc... I got news for ya! [a gigantic hideous monstrosity looms the area] Your living museum is officially a wild safari! [starts shooting at it]
Roger: Hepatitis A! Run!!
%
Morty: Rick, Reu-Reu-Reuben's got tuberculosis!
Rick: Oh, great work, Morty. [grabs extingusher] Okay, I'll just cure it and then— [Reuben flatlines] Okay, well, I can't cure death. This is bad, Morty. You're trapped in a dead man. Listen, if the situation keeps darkening, do yourself a favor and pop my Pirates of the Pancreas. Obviously, I'm biased, but I think it's great, Morty. It's a bunch of pah-ah-irates running around a pahh-pahhh-pancreas. W-We don't whitewash it either, Morty. I mean, the pirates are really rapey. The top priority is to get, y'know, you guys outta there but I'm just saying, if that becomes impossible... please, you gotta treat yourself.
%
Jacob: Let me ask you a question, Ethan. Where's the anger coming from, man?
Ethan: From Summer being a total bitch! [Jacob turns to him face-to-face]
Jacob: Where's the anger coming from? [long pause]
Ethan: ..My brother... took me fishing once... in the bushes... [breaks down] I can't... I can't... He made me feel like a girl! I... He made me a girl!
Jacob: He didn't make you anything, man. You are who you are. She is who she is. Now, you go to her... brand-new.
Ethan: Come here, right now.
Summer: Oh, my God. I'm so sorry, Ethan! I love you!
Ethan: I love you so much. [they kiss and caress each other]
Jerry: Um... [Leonard, Joyce and Beth clap]
Joyce: You did it again, cubbie. Come here. [kisses Jacob]
[Jerry then looks to see Leonard in a Superman shirt sneak into a closet, peeking out]
Jerry: No! Stop! I hate this!!
Joyce: Well, Christmas doesn't revolve around what you hate, son.
Jerry: Well, then I hate Christmas! Enjoy being human! You guys are gross and lame.
%
[Morty spots something out of Poncho's backpack]
Morty: Poncho? What is this in your backpack? [Poncho turns back, Bloom sees it]
Bloom: That's bubonic plague! What are you doing with that, Poncho? [Poncho takes Annie hostage]
Poncho: Everybody get back!!
Bloom: Poncho, you son of a bitch! You released the tuberculosis so you could steal from me?
Poncho: That's right, baby. A lot of people would pay top dollar to decimate the population. I'll take the highest bidder—Al-Qaeda, North Korea, Republicans, shriners, balding men that work out, people on the Internet that are only turned on by cartoons of Japanese teenagers. Anything is better than working for you, you pompous, negligent, iTunes-gift-card-as-a-holiday bonus-giving mother— [a screaming Morty jumps on him] Come on! [pushes Morty down on the ground; starts laughing when his bacterium bite his shoulder] Ahh! Get off!
[Poncho falls off the platform screaming down below. Soon after, the sphincter dam starts spewing]
Annie: You guys!
Roger: It's gonna burst!! Go!! Go, go, go!! [Morty, Annie and Bloom run to emergency exit; Roger pulls lever but traps his foot] My foot is stuck!
Annie: No!!
Roger: It's okay! It's okay, just go! Tell my family I love them. They may be hard to find 'cause my wife kept her last name and she made the kids take it, too, so, I-I don't know, you can go— [gets washed into excrement; shuts door]
Annie: No!! [embraces Morty]
%
Anchorman: Reports from all over the country have been coming in about what appears to be a giant naked man over the Continental United States. We now go to Tom Randolph in New York. Tom?
Tom Randolph: Well, the eyes aren't twinkling and the dimples are merry, but I'm standing over a nose like a 70-mile cherry!
Anchorman: Thank you, Tom. Let's go now to Eric McMann in Los Angeles.
Eric McMann: We've got feet here on the West Coast, Bill! Giant feet, even relative to the giant man's size! And you know what they say about that!
Anchorman: Well, if the old adage is true, one can only wonder what's goin' down in the Rocky Mountains.
[at the Rocky Mountains]
Lumberjack: Wha? ...AAAAAAAAAHHHH!!!!
%
Ethan: Those guys are inside me, huh? Like, building a park?
Rick: Those guys are inside you building a piece of shit, Ethan!! They're inside you building a monument to compromise! Fuck 'em. Fuck those people. Fuck this whole thing, Ethan.
Ethan: Cool. And who pays me?
%
Jerry: Wow! What the hell! What happened back there?
Rick: Why don't you ask the smartest people in the universe, Jerry? Oh yeah, you can't. They blew up.
[Rick starts humming "Baker Street"]
%
Rick: [enters, drunk] Hey, Morty.
Morty: What?
Rick: H-hey, little buddy. H-h-how're you doin' in here right now?
Morty: Aw geez, Rick, w-what are you doing, man?
Rick: Y-y-you're a good kid, Morty, y-you're a l-little c-character, Morty.
Morty: Oh, boy...
Rick: Y'know, I had a really.. rocky road today, M-Morty. You're my little friend, aren't you? [sigh] We had some good times together, huh, M-Morty? We- You're a real true hero out in the field. You're a li- you're a real trooper, huh, M-M... Morty?
Morty: Hah, have you been drinking, Rick?
Rick: I really appreciate you, Morty.
Morty: O-okay, cool. All right, Rick—whoa!! [Rick sticks a knife at Morty's neck]
Rick: You little son of a bitch!!
Morty: What're you doing, Rick?!
Rick: Y-Y- ARE YOU A SIMULATION?!!
Morty: STOP!! STOP!!
Rick: HUH?!! ARE YOU A SIMULATION?!!!
Morty: NO!! NO!! NO!!
Rick: YOU LITTLE SON OF A BITCH!!!!
Morty: Ahh! Agh..! Ahh...!
Rick: I-I-I'm sorry, Morty. You're a good— you're a good kid, Morty.
Morty: Geez!
Rick: You're a good— You're a good kid. [collapses]
Morty: Oh my God! [Rick snores] What in the hell?! [beat] What a life...
%
[Jerry struggling with his two strokes with his Mr. Meeseeks]
Mr. Meeseeks: That's okay! I'm Mr. Meeseeks! Look at me! Try again and keep your head down!
Jerry: Okay, well, which is it!? Square my shoulder or keep my head down!?
Mr. Meeseeks: Well, it's both, but most importantly, you gotta relax!
Jerry: Y'know what? Mr. Meeseeks, I don't think this is working. I give up.
Mr. Meeseeks: I'm sorry, Jerry, but it doesn't work like that! I'm Mr. Meeseeks! I have to fulfil my purpose so I can go away! Look at me!
Jerry: Well, make yourself comfortable because I suck.
Mr. Meeseeks: No, Jerry—I'm the one who SUCKS!!!!
%
Giant 1: Hey look, we get it. You're little, you're down on your luck, you think "Hey, he's a giant. Why don't we break into his home, rob him and murder him?!"
Morty: Th-th-- But that's not how it went down!
Giant 2: Oh well, it's going down like that. You're both going down like that.
Rick: Ooh, boy, Morty, you're really showing me how it's done. Reehh-al straightforward and fun.
%
[entering the Thirsty Step tavern]
Morty: Oh wow, Rick! This is more like it! Look! There's little staircase-shaped people in here! A-a-all kinds of crazy characters! This place is great. Y'know, it's whimsical and fun.
Rick: [at green deranged staircase] What're you lookin' at, motherfucker?!
Morty: Easy, Rick!
%
[later with more Meeseeks trying to help Jerry]
Meeseeks 2: OKAY, JERRY, YOU GOT TO JUST CHOKE UP ON THE CLUB!!!
Jerry: WELL, WHICH IS IT!?! Choke up or follow-through!?!
Meeseeks 1: OH, COME ON, JERRY!! WE'VE BEEN OVER THIS!! YOU KNOW YOU GOT TO DO BOTH!!
Meeseeks 2: THIS IS AS FRUSTRATING FOR US AS IT IS FOR YOU!!
Jerry: Don't tell me that! That just puts pressure on me!!
Meeseeks 1: JUST TRY TO RELAX!!
Jerry: YOU TRY TO RELAX!!! HAVE YOU EVER TRIED TO RELAX!?! IT IS A PARADOX!!!
%
Jerry: Look, I got a marriage to keep together. At this point, my golf swing is more your problem than mine. [leaves]
[...]
Meeseeks 1: I CAN'T TAKE IT ANYMORE!!! I JUST WANNA DIE!!!
Meeseeks 2: WE ALL WANNA DIE!! WE'RE MEESEEKS!!!
Meeseeks 3: WHY DID YOU EVEN ROPE ME INTO THIS!?!
Meeseeks 2: 'CAUSE HE ROPED ME INTO THIS!!
Meeseeks 4: WELL, HIM OVER THERE, HE ROPED ME INTO THIS!!
Meeseeks 5: WELL, HE ROPED ME INTO THIS!!
Meeseeks 6: WH-WHAT ABOUT ME!?! H-HE ROPED ME INTO THIS!!
Meeseeks 7: WELL, THAT ONE OVER THERE ROPED ME INTO THIS!!
Meeseeks 8: WELL, HE ROPED ME INTO THIS!!
%
Meeseeks 1: EVERYBODY STO-O-O-OP!!! LOOK AT ME!!! MY BROTHERS, NOTHING WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED BY SHEDDING MEESEEKS BLOOD!! NONE OF US CAN DIE UNTIL OUR JOB IS DONE!!
Meeseeks 2: THE JOB CAN'T BE DONE!! WE'LL NEVER GET TWO STROKES OFF HIS GAME!!
Meeseeks 1: NO, WE WON'T, BUT WE WILL GET ALL STROKES OFF HIS GAME!!
Other Meeseeks: Where's he going with this..? / What's he mean?
Meeseeks 1: WHEN WE KILL HIM!!! [all Meeseeks cheer]
%
Jerry: Nobody's killing me until after I catch my wife with another man.
%
Rick: Okay, well, sometimes, science is more art than science, Morty. A lot of people don't get that.
%
Jerry: Meh, try not to worry about it, Morty. You're a good kid. And there's not a premium on that right now, but you'll be getting girls sometime after Brad's out of shape.
Morty: You're missing the point, Dad... I don't want girls. I want Jessica!
Jerry: Ah, well... I remember feeling that way about a young lady named "your mom". And that's not an urban diss—your mom was my Jessica. I remember the first time I saw her. I thought...
Rick: [opens cupboard] "I should get her pregnant, then she'll have to marry me."
Jerry: I beg your pardon, Rick. Inappropriate.
Rick: [rummages freezer and fridge] Sorry, please proceed with your story about banging my daughter in high school. I'm not sure you wanna take romantic advice from this guy, Morty. His marriage is hanging from a thread.
Jerry: My marriage is FINE, thank you.
Rick: Jerry, it's your house. Whatever you say it is how it is, but I think a blind man could see that Beth is looking for the door. I barely have a reason to care and even I noticed.
Morty: C'mon, Rick! Don't talk about my parents like that!
Rick: Listen, Morty, I hate to break it to you, but what people call "love" is just a chemical reaction that compels animals to breed. It hits hard, Morty, then it slowly fades, leaving you stranded in a failing marriage. I did it. Your parents are gonna do it. Break the ycle, Morty. Rise above. Focus on science.
%
Rick: Alright, Morty, I just gotta erhp combine it with some of your DNA.
Morty: Oh well, okay. [unzips]
Rick: A hair, Morty. I need one of your hairs. This isn't Game of Thrones. [pluck]
Morty: Ow!!
%
Rick: Morty, hand me that screwdriver, huh? I'm almost finished making my ionic defibulizer, Morty. It's gonna be great.
Morty: Hey listen, Rick... Y-you know how you said that, y'know, love is a chemical and all that stuff from earlier? Well, I was thinking, y'know... w-w- could you make some sort of chemical thing happen inside of Jessica's mind — y'know, so where she falls in love with me and all that sort of thing? Y'know, like, maybe make some sort of love potion or something?
Rick: Morty, that's such a- poor use of my time, it's beneath me. Hand me the screwdriver.
Morty: Y'know what?! No, Rick! I'm not gonna hand you the screwdriver! I-I'm not gonna hand you anything ever again, Rick! I'm always helping you with this and that and the other thing! W-w-w-w-what about me, Rick? W-w-w-why can't you just help me out once- once- for once?
Rick: Ugh... You're growing up fast, Morty. You're growing into a real big thorn straight up into my ass.
%
Jerry: I wish that shotgun was my penis.
Beth: If it were, you could call me Ernest Hemingway.
Jerry: I don't get it and I don't need to.
%
Rick: Now Morty, whaddaya say, buddy? Will you hand me a screwdriver so I can fix my ionic dis- defibulizer?
Morty: Sure thing, Rick. Here's a screwdriver.
Rick: All right, Morty, thank you very much. We got one screw turn, and two screw turns, an—
[the defibulizer explodes and kills them both in a gore-infested garage with their bodies intact. A while later, the original duo have been transported there in front of their own corpses]
Rick: All right, Morty, here we are.
Morty: Oh my God, Rick!! Is that us!?! W-w-we're DEAD!! What is going on, Rick?! I'm freaking out!!
Rick: Calm down, Morty! Look at me! Calm down, Morty!
Morty: Oh, I can't take it! No, I can't deal with this!
Rick: You gotta— Calm yourself, Morty!
Morty: I can't deal with this, Rick! It can't be real!
Rick: Morty, calm down, Morty! Morty, cal— You gotta calm down, Morty!
Morty: It's you— me— W-w-we're ripped apart!
Rick: Morty— Will you listen to me, Morty?!
Morty: W-w-w— [slap!]
Rick: SHUT UP AND LISTEN TO ME!! It's fine! Everything is fine! There's an infinite number of realities, Morty! And a few dozen of those, I got lucky and turned everything back to normal! I just had to find one of those realities in which we also happen to both die around this time. Now we can just slip into the place of our dead selves in this reality, and everything'll be fine. We're not skipping a beat, Morty. Now help me with these bodies.
Morty: This is insane!
Rick: Look, Morty, I'll grab myself, you grab yourself, okay? I mean, t-th-that seems fair to me — I mean, that seems like a fair way to divvy it up.
Morty: Rick, what about the reality we left behind?!
Rick: What about the reality where Hitler cured cancer, Morty?! The answer is don't think about it! It's not like we can do this every week anyways, we get three or four more of these, tops. Now pick up your dead self and come on. Haste makes waste. [leaves, returns] I-I-I don't suppose you consider this detail, but obviously, if I hadn't screwed up as much as I did, we'd be these guys right now, so, again — you're welcome.
%
Morty: Oh my God! It's a living nightmare! How could you be so irresponsible, Rick?!
Rick: Me, irresponsible?! Y— all I wanted you to do was hand me a screwdriver, Morty! You're the one who wanted to be— wanted me to... buckle down and make you up a... roofie-juice serum so you could roofie that... poor girl at your school! I mean— W-w-w-w... Are you kidding me, Morty?! You're gonna try to take the high road on this one?! Y-y-yo-you're a little creep, Morty! You're a— You'r-you'r-you're just a little creepy creep... person!
Morty: All right, fine! I should've just listened to you when you refused to make the serum. I'm willing to accept my part of the blame for this, Rick — but I'll tell you something, you know what?! You gotta accept your part of the blame! I'm not the one who fouled up the serum! I'm not the one who-who-who... who haphazardly, y'know, mixed a bunch of nonsense together and created a bunch of Cronenbergs! You gotta fix this, Rick!
%
[meanwhile, in another ruined reality]
Cronenberg Rick: Here we are, Cronenberg Morty! A reality where everyone in the world got genetically Cronenberged. We'll fit right in, Cronenberg Morty. It'll be like we never even left Cronenberg World.
Cronenberg Morty: Yeah, Cronenberg Rick, but y'know, I'm gonna miss Cronenberg World, because everyone was Cronenberged all along like us from the beginning, y'know... I mean, I-I wish we hadn't genetically ruined Cronenberg World beyond repair like we did, y'know, and turned everyone into regular normal... people just walking around?
Cronenberg Rick: Don't you worry about that sort of thing, Cronenberg Morty. Let's go make ourselves at home, huh?
%
[at a pawn shop on a small planetoid]
Rick: Look, I'm not paying 70 (erh) smidgens for a (ERHH) broken defraculator.
Pawnbroker: That is multiphase quantum resonator.
Rick: Well, does it defraculate?
Pawnbroker: Fuck, no.
Rick: Then- then- then it's a broken defraculator.
Pawnbroker: Like you would even know dick about fraculation! Your planet just got cellphones, and the coverage still sucks!!
Rick: Yeah, yeah, and your species eat sulfur. So let's say 60 smidgens. I tell you what, I'll do you a favor. I'll throw in a fart.
Morty: Hey uh, Rick, um... y-you think maybe I could get something from this place? L-l-like a souvenir? L-like just to have—like something cool, y'know?
Rick: Not here, Morty, we'll stop somewhere else, because you know, there's always another pawn shop.
Morty: Oh okay, I just, um... Y'know, I thought that robot over there looked pretty cool, y'know?
Rick: Oh, it looks cool, huh? That's why you want it?
Morty: Yeah, y'know! I mean, it's different from the stuff on Earth. A-a-a-and y'know, y-you take me to all these crazy places across the galaxy and- y'know, I don't really have anything to- to remember all those trips by. It'd be kinda cool, like a souvenir. Y'know, like, what if you passed away or died or something? I wouldn't even have anything to remember... all the cool stuff we did, y'know?
Rick: Okay. 60 (erhp) for the resonator, and my grandson wants the sex robot.
%
Morty: Morty Jr.! Smoking?! That is not okay!
Morty Jr.: What are you gonna do, ground me?! I can't go outside anyway!
Morty: So what?! Y-Y-You could do things inside! Y-You could play guitar, you could masturbate!
Morty Jr.: I don't wanna masturbate! I wanna conquer the planet!
Morty: Oh, here we go again! Y-Y'know, who do you think is gonna love you if you conquer the planet, Morty Jr.?!
Morty Jr.: Love... that's all you care about! What about weapons?! What about domination of the enemy?!
Morty: Alright, that's it! No more History Channel! This TV is for cartoons and video games only!
Morty Jr.: I hate video games!!
Morty: You take that back!! [they fight over the remote] Give it to me!! [pushes Morty Jr.] I-I-I-I— I didn't mean— I didn't mean that! I didn't mean to do that! I'm sorry!
Morty Jr.: [runs to the door] I can't take this anymore!! I'd rather breath poison than live another minute with you!!
Morty: No! No, no, no! Stop!!
[Morty Jr. nudges Morty back and walks out of the house. He takes a deep breath and holds it in; he pauses for a beat]
Morty Jr.: My life has been a lie! God is dead! The government's lame! [runs into the street] Thanksgiving is about killing Indians! Jesus wasn't born on Christmas! They moved the date, it was a pagan holiday!
%
Ants in My Eyes Johnson: I'm Ants in My Eyes Johnson here at Ants in My Eyes Johnson's Electronics! I mean, there's so many ants in my eyes! And there's so many TVs! Microwaves! Radios, I think! I can't, I'm not 100 percent sure what we have here in stock, because I can't see anything! Our prices, I hope, aren't too low! Check out this refrigerator! Only $200! What about this microwave? Only $100, that's fair! I'm Ants in My Eyes Johnson! Everything's black! I can't see a thing! And also, I can't feel anything either, [sets ablaze] did I mention that? But that's not as catchy, as having ants in your eyes, so... that always goes... y'know, off by the wayside! I can't feel, it's a very rare disease, all my se— all my nerves, they don't allow for the sensation of touch! So I never know what's going on! Am I standing, sitting? I don't know!
%
Leprechaun: Oh, I love me Strawberry Smiggles. Ooh, I hope nobody ever gets my hands on me and tries to steal my Strawberry Smiggles. I'm gonna eat every last of them, because— and then they'll be in my stomach and nobody will ever be able to eat them. Except for me, because they're gonna be all inside my stomach. Um, my name is Mr... Tophat Jones, and God forbid anyone ever take my sner... little-people Snibbles. I'm keeping them all for me.
[he then eats all his Smiggles]
Tophat Jones: Last bite. Mm. Oh, now they're resting comfortably in my stomach. Ooh, am I feeling good... [two disturbed children run to him] No! Get away from me! Get away from me, there's no more Strawberry Smiggles— NAOHH!!
[the girl knifes open his exposed entrails and eat the Smiggles from his intestines]
Tophat Jones: Jesus Christ! Jesus Christ!! It hurts! My entrails are out!! Why would you even want to eat these?! Th-they're soaked with my stomach acid! [the boy eats as well] Oh, Jesus Christ! Lord, savior and-and spirit, save me! Take me to the light! Oh my God, I see demons! I see demons are coming!
Morty: Geez, Rick, oh my God! That's some pretty hardcore stuff... y'know, for a cereal commercial.
Rick: Well y'know, Morty — I mean, if want to sell boxes of cereal, you gotta— you gotta pump the gas a little. Pedal to the metal, Morty.
%
Gazorpazorpfield: [Yawns and stretches] I hate Mumumanunzdays. And I really could go for some enchiladas!
[Title sequence: "Gazorpazorpfield: Gimmie My Darn Enchiladas!"]
Morty: Hey, Rick, that's pretty cool. It's just like Garfield, only instead it's Gazorpazorpfield.
Rick: Hey, isn't Gazorpazorp wh-where uh, where those sex robots came from? Remember that whole thing?
Morty: Yeeah. Hey that's a pretty- pretty... That's true. That's right.
Rick: Yeah. Let's watch some more Gazorpazorpfieeeld.
Gazorpazorpfield: Hey, Jon. It's me, Gazorpazorpfield. Boy, fuck you, Jon, you fucking dumb, stupid idiot.
Jon: Come on, Gazorpazorpfield, go easy on me, huh?
Gazorpazorpfield: You dumb, stupid, weak, pathetic, white, white... uh-uhh... guilt... white-guilt, milquetoast... piece of human garbage.
Jon: Geez, Gazorpazorpfield, that's, y'know... Yo-you're pretty mean to me, but that takes the cake.
Gazorpazorpfield: I don't give a fuck! I'm Gazorpazorp-fucking-field, bitch. Now gimme my fucking enchiladas. [voice actor chuckles]
Morty: Hey, Rick, y'know... Di-did they use Bill Murray for this? Sounds a lot like Bill Murray.
Rick: No, Morty, it's Lorenzo Music. In this reality, he's still alive.
Morty: Oh, okay. Was his name Lorenzo Music?
Rick: Yeah, I'm pretty sure. He also did the voice of that one guy from Ghostbusters, which is really strange because it's the same character Bill Murray played in the movie but then, when they made the movie, Bill Murray did the voice of uh... Gazorpazorpfiel— uh, Garfield, I mean.
Morty: Yeah, that's pretty cool, Rick. So all that happened in this reality, too?
Rick: I don't know. Just making conversation with you, Morty. What do you think, I-I-I... know everything about everything?
%
Narrator: Man. Woman. And now trunkmen?? We know scientists created men that have a trunk that allows them to have sex with both male and female partners. But we don't like the idea of these people getting married.
Narrator: [two voice tracks overlap] Put a line in the sand, pe-e-eople/everybody! Vote "NO" on proposition zix-/XW2.
Football Shirt Guy: The act that says geh-eh trunkpeople can get married. Who needs it?
Garbageman: Not on my watch!
Narrator: Paid for by Michael Dennys and the Denny... Singers.
[Cut to next ad]
Trunk Person Spokesman: Hi, I'm a trunk person and I want— I-I feel love in my heart too just like you. I want to be able to express that love with both a man and a woman. And I won't be able to if Denny and the... Denny Singers get their way.
Pizza Man: Hey, let the trunk people have sex and get married, eh?
Narrator: Paid for by... Trunk People.
%
Morty: Can I show you something?
Summer: Morty, no offence, but a drawing of me you made when you were eight isn't gonna make me feel like less of an accident!
Morty: [points outside] THAT, out there? That's my grave.
Summer: ..Wait, what?
Morty: On one of our adventures, Rick and I basically destroyed the whole world, so we bailed on that reality and we came to this one. Because in this one, the world wasn't destroyed. And in this one, we were dead. So we came here, a-an-an-and we buried ourselves and we took their place. And every morning, Summer, I eat breakfast 20 yards away from my own rotting corpse!
Summer: So... you're not my brother?
Morty: I'm better than your brother. I'm a version of your brother you can trust when he says, "Don't run."
%
Chief: Baby Legs and Regular Legs, I'm proud of you two for working together. And Baby Legs, I know it was hard for you to come to the conclusion that you need a partner, but I'm proud of you that you did it.
Baby Legs: Hey, thanks, Chief.
Chief: Now get the fuck outta here!
Rick: Pretty cool, huh, Morty? [no Morty but Jerry here] Oh.
Jerry: I thought it was pretty cool.
Rick: I don't give a fuck what you think, Jerry!
%
[Rick has been building a small robot at the breakfast table]
Butter Robot: What is my purpose?
Rick: Pass the butter. [The robot does] Thank you.
[...]
Butter Robot: What is my purpose?
Rick: You pass butter.
Butter Robot: [looks at his hands; his shoulders sag] Oh my God.
Rick: Yeah, welcome to the club, pal.
%
Mr. Needful: Do I need to call the police?
Rick: Here, you can use my phone. Don't worry; it won't make you deaf because I'm not a hack.
%
Rick: Have you acquired creepy specific old stuff from a mysterious antique or thrift store that gives you powers, but [bleep] with you in unforeseeable ways? Bring it to "Curse Purge Plus", I use science to un-curse the item for cash, and you get to keep the powers. This eerily intelligent doll was threatening to murder its family. Now it does their taxes. Don't pay for cool stuff with your soul. Pay for it with money. You know? How every store in the world works?
%
Jerry: Morty, I'm not as smart as your Grandpa Rick, but I promise never to make that your problem again.
Morty: Hey, Dad? Nobody's smarter than Rick, but nobody else is my dad. You're a genius at that.
Jerry: Wow, that's humbling and flattering, son. Thank you. What's say we finish ourselves an 8-planet solar system?
Morty: Um, [holds up the butter robot in a sandwich baggie] I'm just gonna take this thing in and get an A.
Butter Robot: Butter.
Jerry: But—
Morty: You're a genius at being my dad, Dad. Quit while you're ahead. [Jerry begins to shut the door] And also knock next time, you know? I mean, I'm sitting in here, I'm fourteen, I got a computer in here, you know?
Jerry: Oh. I, uh, I think I understand.
Morty: You know, you're really playing with fire when you burst in here like that, man.
Jerry: I get it. Say no more.
Morty: I mean one of these days, you know, you're gonna—you're gonna—you're gonna end up seeing something.
Jerry: I got it! Noted! Good night!
%
Rick Councillor: Poor little Rickless bastards.
%
Rick Councillor: Earth Rick C-137, the Council of Ricks sentences you to the Machine of Unspeakable Doom, which swaps your conscious and unconscious minds, rendering your fantasies pointless while everything you've known becomes impossible to grasp. Also, every ten seconds, it stabs your balls.
%
Morty: Geez, Rick, wh-what is this place?
Rick: The Citadel of Ricks. It's the secret headquarters for the Council of Ricks.
Morty: Council of Ricks?
Rick: As you know, Morty, I've got a lot of enemies in the universe that consider my genius a threat. Galactic terrorists, a few sub-galactic dictators, most of the entire intergalactic government. Wh-wherever you find people with heads up their asses, someone wants a piece of your grandpa. And a lot of versions of me on different timelines had the same problem. So a few thousand versions of me had the [yells] INGENIOUS IDEA OF BANDING TOGETHER like a herd of cattle or a school of fish, or... those people who answer questions on Yahoo! Answers.
Morty: Hey! What do you know? It's a cowboy version of me!
Rick: Geez, you're easy to impress. Yeah, most timelines have a Rick, and most Ricks have a Morty. This place is a real who's who of who's you and me.
Rick Seller 1: Turn your boring, old Morty into a... hot fashion statement... with some Morty dazzlers!
Rick Seller 2: Hey, check this out! [presses Morty doll]
Morty Doll: Show me the Morty!
Rick: Dumb.
Rick Insurer: Excuse me, sir, is your Morty insured? You know, every year, hundreds of Mortys are injured—
Rick: Back off! Not my cup of tea, this place. I say the point of being a Rick is being a Rick.
Rick Officer: Save your anti-Rick speech for the Council of Ricks, terror-Rick.
Rick: Hey, save your Rick rules for the ueh sheep-Ricks, Rick-pig.
Rick Officer: Fuck me, pal.
Rick: Fuck you? No, no, no, no, no, fuck me!
%
Rick Councillor: Twenty-seven Ricks brutally murdered in their own timelines. An unprecedented Rick-icidal epidemic. What say you, Earth Rick C-137?
Rick: You think I did this?! Why am I the first Rick you pull in every time a Rick stubs his toe?!
Rick Councillor: Youuu... eh-have a history of non-cooperation with the Council.
Rick: Yeah, so does The Scientist Formerly Known As Rick! W-w-wh-wh-why isn't he here in handcuffs?
Rick Councillor: Because HE'S DEAD TOO!!
[pan to show a dead Prince-like Rick in the hologram, all other Ricks groan]
Rick Councillor: Who else would you have us question? You fit the profile! Of all the Ricks in the central finite curve, you're the malcontent. The rogue.
Rick: I'm the Rick, and so are the rest of you before you formed this stupid alliance. You wanted to be safe from the government so you became a stupid government! That makes every Rick here less Rick than me! [all other Ricks and Mortys murmur] Yeah, murmur it up, d-bags.
%
Morty: You know, Rick, when I first saw all those Ricks and Mortys, I thought, "Gee, that kinda devalues our bond." But then I realized it just means that our relationship must be pretty special to span over all those different timelines.
Rick: Yeah, it's gotta be that way. You're a camouflage.
Morty: Camouflage? Wh-wh-what are you talking about, Rick?
Rick: Ricks have a very distinctive and traceable brainwave due to our genius. The best way to hide from an enemy's radar is to stand near someone with complementary brainwaves that make ours invisible. [picks his pen] See, w-w-w-when a Rick i-is with a Morty, [writes diagram] the genius waves get canceled out by the, uh... ahe-hem... Morty waves.
Morty: Um... because... our personalities are so different? [Rick's portal gun beeps]
Rick: Ohhh, shit, dawg! My portal gun was hacked remotely, Morty—obviously by the real killer to frame me. But I was able to trace the signal. Come on, let's go! [two Rick officers and a Morty officer enter] Uh-oh...
Rick Officer 1: Excuse me, we tracked a pair of dangerous criminals to this exact location. They look exactly like us, so in order to avoid confusion, I'm gonna mark us each with a red X right now. That way, if someone has a gun and we both tell you to shoot the other one because they're the evil one, you'll know who's lying.
Rick Officer 2: Hey, check it out! [Rick and Morty position themselves down as the Rick officers rotate them as human chairs in their clothing]
Rick Officer 1: Dammit!
[pan right to see Rick on the police hover-vehicle with Morty, flipping them off as the officer Ricks and Morty run outside to see them fly away]
Chair Butler: Hey, you didn't pay your bill!
Rick Officer 1: THE RED X!! RED X!!
%
Jerry: Dude, are you..? Wait, you're being a dick, right?
Doofus Rick: Oh gosh, I-I hope not. I..I-I-I-I wouldn't wanna offend you in any way.
Jerry: ..You're really a Rick?
Doofus Rick: [laughs] Of course I am! Just as much as my Mortys and Morty. [pan to three Morty officers playing cards with a deformed-head Morty gesturing him back]
Jerry: Hey, he looks a lot like Eric Stoltz from the movie Mask. You know, the one with Cher in it?
Doofus Rick: That's right, Jerry! He-he's from a reality where everyone is Eric Stoltz Mask people! He's Eric Stoltz Mask Morty! They assigned him to me because I never had any kids of my own. But if I did, boy... I'd love 'em if they were as smart and as successful as you are, Jerry. [two Rick officers enter]
Rick Officer 1: Hey, get a load of this. Jerry's hanging out with Doofus Rick.
Rick Officer 2: Ahaha, this is perfect.
Doofus Rick: I'm not Doofus Rick! I'm Rick J19-Zeta-7!
Rick Officer 1: Ooh, is that the timeline where everybody eats poop? Jerry, you know this guy eats poop, right?
Doofus Rick: Hey, I don't eat poop! Y-you guys are always so mean to me! [...] I guess it's only fair to tell you now, Jerry... I'm the worst Rick of them all!
Jerry: According to who?! Other versions of you? If I learned one thing, it's that before you get anywhere in life, you gotta stop listening to yourself.
Doofus Rick: Wow! You really are wise, Jerry! I..I-I guess that's why you work in advertising!
Jerry: The fact that you feel that way makes you the best Rick of them all.
%
Evil Rick: You're crying? Over a Morty?
Rick: No, I'm just allergic to dipshits.
Evil Rick: Ugh. Pathetic. We both know that if there's any truth in the universe, it's that Ricks don't care about Mortys.
%
Rick: Oh, great. Who invited Abradolf Lincler?
Summer: I thought everyone was welcome.
Rick: It's not the same, Summer! Lincler's a crazed maniac. He's just a misguided effort of mine to create a morally neutral super-leader by combining the DNA of Adolf Hitler and Abraham Lincoln. Turns out that ehh-it just adds up to a lame, weird... loser.
Lincler: Rick... you brought me into this world a suffering abomination, tortured by the duality of its being, but I shall finally know peace when I watch the life drain from your wretched body!! [nudges at Brad]
Brad: Whoa! What's up, man?
Lincler: I have no quarrel with you, boy.
Brad: Boy? What's that supposed to mean?
Lincler: It's just— L-Look, I-I-I don't know you thought I mean it, but... [shrugs at Rick]
Rick: Don't look at me, dude.
Lincler: Look, I'm half-Abraham Lincoln, so...
Brad: So... I should get on my knees and kiss your ass?!
Lincler: No, but... [strains] Y'know—
Brad: What do I know?! That the Third Reich will reign for a thousand years?!
Jessica: Leave him alone, Brad!
Brad: Stay outta this, Jessica!!
Rick: KICK HIS ASS, BRAD!! [everyone starts chanting] KICK HIS ASS!! KICK HIS ASS!!
[Brad punches, kneebutts Lincler's face to a bloody pulp and brawls at him more]
Jessica: Brad! [runs off to the front door with Morty running after her; he has Rick behind him]
Morty: Rick!!
Rick: [pushes him] Just did you a favor, Morty.
%
Rick: Let's see. Giant star in the sky, oxygen rich atmosphere, giant testicle monsters. Yeah we're good; let's keep this party going!
%
Bird Person: It has been a challenging mating season for Bird Person.
%
Rick: It's like the N word and the C word had a baby and that baby was raised by every bad word for Jews.
%
Squanchy: Is there any place that I can squanch around here?
%
Bird Person: Morty, do you know what "wubba lubba dub dub" means?
Morty: Oh, that's just Rick's stupid nonsense catchphrase.
Bird Person: It's not nonsense at all. In my people's tongue, it means, "I am in great pain. Please help me."
Morty: Well, I got news for ya — he's saying it ironically.
Bird Person: No, Morty. Your grandfather is indeed in very deep pain. That is why he must numb himself.
Morty: Come on... uh—
Bird Person: Bird Person.
Morty: Come on, Bird Person! Rick's not that complicated! He's just a... huge asshole!
Bird Person: Then why do care so much if you are no longer allowed to continue on your adventures together? It appears fate has presented you with an opportunity to free yourself of Rick forever.
Morty: Y'know what, you're right. I shouldn't even care! This is probably the best thing that could have happened to me! I'm sick of having adventures with Rick!
Bird Person: My people have another saying. "Gubba nub nub do ra ka." It means, "Whatever lets you sleep at night."
%
Morty: Hey, Rick... y'know, this whole time, I haven't once heard you say that "wubba lubba dub dub" thing that you usually say.
Rick: Don't need to. I have a-ehh ehh new catchphrase.
Morty: Oh, yeah? W-What's that, Rick?
Rick: I love my grandkids.
Summer/Morty: Aww!
Rick: Psyche! Just kidding, my new catchphrase is: "I don't give a fu-u-uck!!" [turns on boombox] Just shake that ass bitchin', let me see watch you got! Just shake that ass bitchin', let me see watch you got! Roll credits! Just shake that a—roll the credits, go! Just shake that ass! That's the end of season one! That's the end, motherfuckahs! "I don't give a fuck" is my new catchphrase!! Fuck you!! That's season one! Boom!! Season one up— in your face, motherfuckers!! Yeah!!
%
Ricks: This is why you don't freeze time, you guys. It's incredibly irresponsible.
Mortys: And you did it so we could clean the house after a party?!
Ricks: Look, there's no time to hold me accountable, Morty. Like, literally no time. Look around. Uncertainty is inherently unsustainable. Eventually, everything either is or isn't. And we've got about four hours to be "is."
Mortys: Or...?
Ricks: We "isn't." All right, since this time crystal exists in both possibilities, and since it's impossible that I didn't nail this, I'm probably about to press this button in both possibilities at exactly the same time.
Morty 1/Summer 2: How do you know that I—
Ricks: Whatever you're asking, the answer is I'm amazing. And away we go!
[the two Ricks press their buttons; the two realities are starting to merge back together as one]
Rick: Huh, what do ya know—it's working. [the two Mortys and Summers begin distorting each other thoroughly] Oh... shit!
[Rick reverts into two possibilities again]
Ricks: What the hell is wrong with you two?! I-I-I-I..I mean, you four!
Mortys/Summer 2: That hurt! That was painful!
Ricks: Good! I'm glad that was painful! You deserve it! I saw you!! Y-You're both uhh-all over the damn place! We've been split for 20 minutes and your lives are already scattered to the quantum fucking wind?! What the hell do either of you two have to be so uncertain about?! Your brand of zit cream?! Which chair to sit in while I do everything?! Come on, spit it out!
Mortys: Well, you don't exactly make it easy, Rick! [talk differently at the same time] You make fun all the time and that's got Summer to do! / You're always picking on me and now you got Summer to kiss your ass!
Summers: Me?! What about you?! Could you be more excited to see me fail?! You got Grandpa all to yourself! / You're just as mean to me because you're jealous... because you want Grandpa all to yourself!
Ricks: All right, all right, cool it! I see what's happening here. You're both young, you're both unsure about your place in the universe, and you both want to be Grandpa's favorite. I can fix this. Morty, sit here. Summer, you sit here. Now, listen—I know the two of you are very different from each other in a lot of ways, but you have to understand that as far as Grandpa's concerned, you're both pieces of shit! Yeah. I can prove it mathematically. Actually, l-l-let me grab my whiteboard. This has been a long time coming, anyways.
%
Ricks: So, in conclusion, you're both equally mercurial, overly sensitive, clingy, hysterical bird-brain homunculi. And I honestly can't even tell the two of you apart half the time because I don't go by height or age, I go by amount of pain in my ass—which makes you both identical. All right, everything resolved? Everybody nice and certain about their position in my world?
Mortys/Summers: Yes.
Ricks: All right, perfect. Sit still, arr-arms down. I'm gonna do this again. This time, be like Grandpa.
Morty 2: You mean drunk?
Rick 2/Rick 1: What's that? You got something to say? / And awaaay we go!
Morty 2: No.
Rick 2: And awaaay we go! [presses his button but no response] Huh, that's weird.
Rick 1: Huh, that's weird. [keeps pressing to no avail] Oh my God.
Summer 1/Rick 2: What? / Oh my God.
Summer 2/Rick 1: What? / The sonofabitch is gonna kill me!
Morty 1/Summer 1/Rick 2: What?! / The sonofabitch is gonna kill me!
Morty 2/Summer 2: What?! [both Ricks tinker time-device]
Rick 1: Diabolical, unfeeling sociopath! Don't you get it?! Don't you get it?!
Rick 2: Don't you get it?! The other Rick isn't trying to merge us anymore!
Ricks: He thinks he can save his own skin by using the crystal to kill me! He probably figures it's ehh-easier to eliminate one of the possibilities rather than merge them! [chuckling] I have to admit, it's always in the back of my mind too. The difference is I would never do it! Until now.
Mortys: Rick, what the hell are you doing?!
Ricks: Saving our lives! After he takes me out, he's g-g— he's gonna be coming for you!
Summers: Who?!
Ricks: Me! [Rick 1 shoots first before Rick 2 does; Morty and Summer 2 scream]
Rick 2: You see that?! Get down! [shoots upwards at Rick 1]
Rick 1: I told you! He's a psycho!
Rick 2: He's lost it! Th-th-th-the time fracture must've made him crazy!
Rick 1/Summer 2: I don't know what to do! I don't know what to do! / Oh, crap!
[the two possibilities then gradually split into four; all Ricks look at their monitors with four dots]
Ricks: Oh, God, now there's three of 'em! We're outnumbered! Get in the cupboards! [all Mortys and Summers do so] Wait, do-don't do that! They'll know! Wa-wait— Think about getting in the cupboards, but don't really! [all Ricks shoot their cupboards] URAAAHHHH!!!! IS THIS WHAT YOU WANT, YOU SICK FUCKS?!! YOU WANT TO SEE CHILDREN DIE?!!
%
Rick: Okay, wait here.
Morty: I wanna come with!
Rick: Don't come with. It's boring, it's... [burp] it's business stuff.
Morty: What kind of business do you do in a garage? Y'know, this seems a little shady.
Rick: Right, yeah, like nothing shady ever happened in a fully furnished office? You ever hear about Wall Street, Morty? Y-Y-Y'know what those guys do i-in-in their fancy boardrooms? They take their balls and they dip 'em in cocaine and wipe 'em all over each other—y'know, Grandpa goes around and he does his business in public, because Grandpa isn't shady. [someone knocks his window] Aw, crap. Hey, what's up?
Alien: Hey, Rick! [laughs] Here you go, 3,000 flerbos. Do you have the weapon?
Rick: C-Can we please? This is my grandson, Morty.
Alien: Oh, hi, Morty! I'm Krombopulos Michael. I'm an assassin, I buy guns from your grandpa.
Rick: [groans] Here, go away! [K. Michael opens case]
Krombopulos Michael: Ooh! Yeah, this looks deadly. So, this shoots antimatter? My target can't be killed with regular matter. Nice to meet ya, Morty! Listen, if ya ever need anybody murdered, [hands Morty a card] please give me a call.
Rick: You're g— you're giving him a card?!
Krombopulos Michael: [cont'd] I have no code of ethics, I will kill anyone, anywhere. Children, animals, old people, doesn't matter. I just love killin'. [leaves]
Morty: You sell weapons to killers for money?
Rick: Ugh... You've got what the intergalactic call a very planetary mindset, Morty. It's more complicated out here. These are flerbos. Do you understand what two humans can accomplish with 3,000 of these?
Morty: Uh, what?
Rick: An entire afternoon at BLIPS AND CHI-I-I-I-I-ITZ!!!!
%
Fart: Thank you, Morty. You are not like other carbon-based lifeforms. You put the value of all life above your own.
Morty: It's how things should be. It's how they could be.
Fart: I could not agree more. [sings]
The worlds can be one together, cosmos without hatred
Stars like diamonds in your eyes
The ground can be space (space, space, space, space)
With feet marching towards a peaceful sky.

All the moon men want things their way
But we make sure they see the sun.

Goodbye, moon men
You say goodbye, moon men
Goodbye—
Rick: SHUT THE FUCK UP ABOUT MOON MEN!! This isn't a musical number! This is a fucking... operation, we gotta be cool and fucking lay low.
%
[the police locates Rick and Morty]
Rick: Somebody droped the dime on us... GEARHEAD!
Gearhead: [pointing with a gun] I'm sorry Rick. The reward in your head is too high, and like you always say, "you gotta' look out for the Number One".
Rick: Number One is ME, asshole! You're supposed to be my friend!
Gearhead: FRIEND? D'you even know my real name? It's Revolio Clockberg Jr! I belong to an entire species of gear people. Calling me "gearhead" is like calling a chinese person "asianface".
[Rick quickly throws some branches to Gearhead's mechanical mouth]
Gearhead: No! Not! WAIT!
[Rick kicks Gearhead's crotch, and exchange his testicle gears with his mouth gears]
Rick: Two things I wanna' make clear to EVERYBODY in this room: never betray me, and it's time to go.
%
Rick: The first rule of space travel, kids, is always check out distress beacons. 9 out of 10 times, it's a ship full of dead aliens and a bunch of free shit!
%
Rick: I'm not looking for judgement, just a yes or no — can you assimilate a giraffe?
%
Rick: "World peace achieved." Nice. Little weird to publish a paper about it for yourself, but hey. So, what's next?
Unity Newsman: After I become a type-one civilization, this world will be invited into the Galactic Federation.
Rick: Oh, goody.
Unity Businessman: From there, I'll have access to countless planets and species.
Unity Woman: One by one, I will unify them, I will become the universe, and I will be what the single-minded once called a god.
Rick: [belches] I like that. Oh, that's pretty sexy. Hey, listen, where can we get a drink around here?
Unity Old Woman: Recreational substances were phased out here. There's no need for escape from the self when your world is one.
Rick: Unity, Unity, who am I talking to?! I watched you assimilate a whole police station just to get your hands on the evidence locker.
Unity Deliveryman: Rick, when we met, I was a young hive mind with the population of a small town. People change.
Unity Hobo: Especially when I change them. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I've grown.
Rick: Hey, listen, I've grown, too. I have! See, I've-I've reconnected with my family, right?
Unity Policewoman: Hm. Why is that, I wonder?
Rick: Maybe it's part of getting old. Maybe I just missed being with... a collective. [they both exchange kisses, upping their sexual arousal]
Unity People: Yes, Rick, yes! Yes, yes!
Rick: Wait, wait, stop! H-Hold it! Not like this. We need a hang glider, and a crotchless Uncle Sam costume, and I want the entire field of your largest stadium covered end to end with naked redheads, and I want the stands packed with every man that remotely resembles my father.
%
Morty: I think you're getting what you wanted, Summer. Something's happening to Unity.
Summer: ..Do all of you remember who you are?
Man 1: Yeah... uh, my name is Ron Benson. I'm... an electrical engineer, father of two. And, as you can see from my flat, concentric nipple rings, [rips shirt] I'm a member of this planet's top race!! [all cheer]
Summer: Okay, that's good! Uhh, don't focus too much on the last part, but—
Man 2: I'm Daryl Jefferson. I'm a landscaper! And I'll damned if that ripple-nipple bitch's race is superior!! THE CONE-NIPPLE PEOPLE WILL RULE THIS WORLD!!!
Benson: You shut your mouth, you dirty knife-nipple bastards!!
Jefferson: What'd you say to me, you target-chest piece of shit!?!
Man 3: RACE WARRRRR!!!!
[everyone starts advancing and fighting each other]
Summer: Why are you fighting!?! Can't you see you're all the same?!
Morty: Aw, Summer. [laughs] First race war, huh?
%
Jerry: Oh, man! I cannot wait. I cannot wait to hear Rick explain his way around this. He is gone!
Beth: Jerry, stop! Please, okay? We weren't even supposed to be down here. If we confront him about this—
Jerry: Oh, my GOD!! I LOVE THIS!! I love that this is how far you will go for him. You want to go upstairs and cut carrots and watch a Lifetime Original above a fucking alien dungeon!! Your relationship with your father is psychotic!
Beth: Oh, listen to you relish the idea that my genius father is a bad person. Step out of your ego for a second and look at this thing! It's a monster. He might have it chained up so that it doesn't eat the planet!
Jerry: Right, because your father's such an altruist? I once saw him briefly forget the word "for humans." He's probably harvesting this creature's organs!
Beth: He's probably racing to cure its space AIDS!
Jerry: HE'S GOING TO EAT IT!!
Beth: HE'S PROTECTING IT!!! [the alien shrills]
Beth: SHUT UP!!
%
[the alien punches a glass door and aims a device at Jerry and Beth before using it on its throat]
Alien: [speaks] Um, first of all, hello. Uh, my name is Blim Blam the Korblok. Second of all, cards on the table, I'm a murderer that eats babies, and I came to this planet to eat babies. However, I am also carrying a highly infectious disease that I suppose you could call "space AIDS" as you put it, and Rick did chain me up so that he could attempt to cure it. [Beth serves Jerry] At the same time, Rick's motivation to cure my disease was not to save my life or anyone else's, but to patent and sell the cure for billions of Blemflarcks. [Jerry serves back] But you know the reason why I ripped my chains out of the wall? [confronts them] And do you know why I'm never coming back to this planet?! BECAUSE THE TWO OF YOU ARE THE FUCKING WORST!!! You both hate yourselves AND each other!! And the idea that it has ANYTHING to do with Rick is laughable. I'd laugh but I'm biologically incapable. That's how alien I am! And even I'm sitting here listening to the two of you and being like, "WHAT THE FUCK!?!" So good luck with your shitty marriage, and tell Rick I'm sorry he has to deal with EITHER of you. Blim Blam OUT.
[he mic-drops the device and leaves, only to come back for the device]
Blim Blam: You know what? I'm taking this.
%
[Rick shoots Uncle Steve in the head with his laser gun; everyone freaks out]
Morty: What the hell, Rick!?! What the hell!?!
Rick: Would everybody just relax for a second? There's no such thing as an "Uncle Steve", that is an alien parasite. [Steve morphs into a horrifyingly-looking alien, spraying magenta enzymes out of its mouth tentacles at Jerry. Summer and Beth gasp]
Jerry: But I've known him my whole life!
Rick: No, you haven't, Jerry! [brings it onto table] These telepathic little bastards, they embed themselves in memories and th-th-they use those to multiply and spread out, take over planets. It's-it's disgusting.
Morty: Steve wasn't real?!
Rick: He's a real piece of shit! This is a big one. [drops it] Somebody probably tracked it in last week on the bottom of their shoe or on a piece of alien fruit.
Summer: Someone?
Rick: Get off the high road, Summer! We all got pinkeye because you won't stop texting on the toilet.
Morty: But Uncle Steve taught me how to ride a bike!
Rick: No, "Steve" put that memory in your brain so he could live in your house, eat your food and multiply. We could be infested with these things. [burps, unloads laser clip] So, we got to keep an eye out for any zany, wacky characters that pop up.
Mr. Poopybutthole: Oooohwee! Whatever you want, Rick, we're here to help!
Rick: Thanks, Mr. Poopybutthole. I always could count on you.
%
Sleepy Gary: I think you should put down the gun and we should get you to a doctor. What do you say we take down these blast shields?
Rick: I can't do that, Sleepy Gary. All right, everybody listen to me! I don't know if any of you guys are real, but this house has been infested with fake loved ones that spread through fake memories, and our planet will be destroyed if they get out.
Pencilvester: [grunts] But Rick, even you have to admit you do tend to overreact to stuff.
[cutaway to living room with Frankenstein, Morty, Ghost In a Jar, Pencilvester, Beth and Sleepy Gary]
Rick: You guys! We gotta hurry! I just got back from Walmart, they're selling Nintendo 3DS systems for 149.99 on sale, plus every time you buy one, you get a $50 gift card—brings the total price down to $110 after tax! Now listen! We can flip those sons of bitches for 230 bucks apiece easy! They're all limited-edition "Zelda" ones! Hurry! Hurry, come with me! We can be rich, and we also all get to keep one and we can play Nintendo games! [exits, comes back] Nintendo, give me free stuff.
[back to present]
Rick: Okay, yes, I definitely remember doing that, but also, I would never do that!
Pencilvester: Don't overreact, Rick.
%
Rick: Is anyone here even real?! AM I THE ONLY REAL PERSON ON EARTH!?!
Giraffe: Maybe. Or maybe—just maybe—we're all real. You know me, I'm Reverse Giraffe. I have a short neck and legs. I went to college with Hamurai.
Hamurai: Hai!
Reverse Giraffe: I saved Ghost In a Jar's life in Vietnam.
Ghost In a Jar: Boo-rah!
Reverse Giraffe: And Beth, how many times have I been a shoulder for you to cry on?
Beth: [sighs] Too many.
Reverse Giraffe: Okay, so maybe we're just all fake! [all bizarre characters disagree] Or maybe there's only one deceiver here—the person that keeps telling us the path to salvation is being held prisoner and mistrusting each other.
Rick: Hey, don't blame me! I tried to shoot Summer 10 minutes ago!
Reverse Giraffe: I know, we all have beloved memories of Rick, but are we really supposed to believe that a mad scientist inventor with a flying car just showed up on our doorstep after being gone for years?
Morty: Yeah... Y'know, he does have a lot of wierd, made-up sounding catchphrases.
Rick: Wubba lubba dub dub!! Ricky Ticky Tavi, BE-YOTCH!! And that's the WA-A-A-A-AY the news goes. Hit the sack, Jack. Uh-oh, somersault jump! AIDS!! And that's why I always say "Shum shum shlippedy dop"! GRA-A-ASS... tastes bad-ah. No jumpin' in the sewer. Burger time! Rubber baby buggy bumpers!! Lick-lick-lick my balls!! [laughs, flips screen] Yeah! Say that all the time.
%
Rick: Ohh, yeahhh
You gotta get schwifty
You gotta get schwifty in here
It's time to get schwifty.

Uh-oh
You gotta get schwifty
Oh, yeahhh
Take off your pants and your panties.

Shit on the floor
Time to get schwifty in here
Gotta shit on the floor
I'm Mr. Bulldops.

I'm Mr. Bulldops
Take a shit on the floor
Take off your panties and your pants
It's time to get schwifty in here.

Voice: New song Schwifty Double X
Schwifty song comin' atcha
It's the Schwif-Schwifty

Rick: Hey, take your pants off
It's schwifty time today.
%
Morty: [phased into a room] Oh, man! Where are we, Rick?
Rick: Morty, remember eight seconds ago when— [burps] when you said "Go inside what?" and I said "The battery"? And then we showed up here and I wasn't like, "Whoa, this is unexpected. This is not what I was expecting, Morty. What a perplexing mystery this is."
Morty: All right, all right. We're inside the battery, I get it. You don't have to bust my balls.
Rick: Huh, this isn't right. This pipe's supposed to be sending 20 terawatts of juice to the... engine, Morty. Instead, we've got... zero? Now what are these people doing?!
Morty: W-W-W-Whoa... People?
Rick: Ugh... It's time for some hands-on engine repair. All right, Morty, hold on to something.
Morty: Whoa!
[the engine room hovers out of a volcano and flies into a civilized city]
Morty: Holy crap! I thought we were inside your car battery, Rick! T-T-This is like a whole p-planet or something!
Rick: Thanks, Morty. I'm pretty proud of this bad boy. Check it out. [shows hologram] I put a spatially tessellated void inside a modified temporal field until a planet developed intelligent life. I then introduced that life to the wonders of electricity, which they now generate on a global scale. And, you know, some of it goes to power my engine and charge my phone and stuff.
Morty: You have a whole planet... sitting around making your power for you?! That's slavery!
Rick: It's society! They work for each other, Morty. They pay each other, they buy houses, they get married and make children that replace them when they get too old to make power.
Morty: That just sounds like slavery with extra steps!
Rick: Ooh-la-la, someone's gonna get laid in college.
%
Zeep: You do realize this will make the flooble crank obsolete? [Rick flexes his bones] This is wrong, Kyle. What you're doing is wrong. You're basically... [scoffs, Rick mouths his words] This is slavery. You're talking about creating a planet of slaves.
Rick: [burps] Told you, Zeep.
Kyle: Oh, they won't be slaves. They'll work for each other and pay each other money.
Zeep: That just sounds like slavery with ex...tra... steps... [turns to Rick]
Rick: What?
Zeep: Wait a minute... [grabs him] Did you create my universe?! Is my universe a miniverse?!
Rick: Microverse!!
Kyle: Uh, teenyverse.
Rick: [Zeep removes his antenna headband] Ugh! You bastard!! [removes Zeep's mask]
Zeep: Much obliged! [pummels into Rick fighting each other]
Kyle: What the hell is happening?
Morty: This is healthy. Trust me.
Rick: You're my battery, motherfucker! [punches Zeep] That's all you are! I made you!! Your microverse sucks!! And your miniverse is the size of a fucking lobster tank!! It's whack!!
Kyle: Are they not really aliens?
Morty: Nah, they're just a couple of... crazy, wacky scientists, y'know?
Kyle: So he made a universe, and that guy is from that universe, and that guy made a universe... and that's the universe where I was born? Where my father died... Where I couldn't make time for his funeral because I was working on my universe.
Morty: [laughs] Yeah! Science, huh? Ain't it a thing. Y'know, one time, Rick sh— accidentally shot his laser pistol right through my hand. Ha, y'know, I mean, like... o...old-lady science, y'know? She-she-she's... she's a real... [Kyle walks away] You gotta hang on tight, y'know? Because she... she'll, she bucks really hard. [Kyle enters engine room pod, flies it straight into a canyon] Ohh, boy, wha— Oh my God, no!!
[the pod crashes into the canyon; Morty looks down at its flaming debris in the river with Rick and Zeep looking down]
Zeep/Rick: Teenyverse.
%
[meanwhile, in Harry Herpson High School]
Summer: Any leads on the vampire?
Morty: No, Summer. I mean, y'know, I think it might be time that we just l-let it go.
Summer: Oh, so now you're too cool for this just because Grandpa Rick is?
Morty: It's not that, it's just... that the universe is a little too big to care about something so small. [closes locker next to a shorter Rick] Ahh!
Rick: What up, my Helsings?! Who wants to hunt a vampire?! Hahaha!
Morty: Rick?! H-How did you—
Rick: Yeah, I got bored and then I remembered this morning how I blew Summer off and I thought, "Hey, why're you such a grumpy douche, Rick? Go to the garage, transfer your mind into a younger clone of yourself, and get embroiled on in some youthful hijinks. What's the BFD?" So here I am. I'm Tiny Rick!!
Morty: O-o-okay...
Summer: Well, it's good you're here, Rick. I was pretty sure we didn't have what it takes to deal with a bloodsucker on our own.
Tiny Rick: Don't short-sell yourself, Summer. You got everything it takes. But it'll still be fun to do this as a fucking team, motherfuckas! [all hands join, up high] Tiny Rick!
Summer: Yeah! Oh my God—Toby Matthews!
Tiny Rick: Hey, Toby. I'm Tiny Rick. [Summer hides her face] I'm new. Hey—oh, go easy on me. Haha! Just kiddin'.
Toby Matthews: [beat] ..I like your straightforward style. And that lab coat's pretty cool. [strolls] Summer.
Summer: ..He knows my name!
Tiny Rick: Why wouldn't he?! You're great! But listen, just be careful. We can't rule anybody out as the vampire, [nudges Summer's arm] not even the dreamboats.
Summer: [flattered] Stop, Tiny Rick.
Tiny Rick: Huntin' a vampire with my grandkids!! FUCK!! TINY RI-I-ICK!!!
%
Tiny Rick: Hey, what's up, Summer? Ooh, nice top.
Summer: Thanks. Tiny Rick, you think you might be getting back into your old body tonight?
Tiny Rick: No can do. Tonight's the big dance, and Morty's bringing Jessica. He needs his tiny wingman! [high-fives Morty]
Both: Tiny Rick! [Morty laughs]
Summer: Okay, but if not tonight, when?
Tiny Rick: I dunno. When I feel like it?
Morty: Damn, girl! You need to chill out! This whole thing was your idea in the first place, and now you're tryin' to rush it along.
Tiny Rick: Yeah, and y'know what? I like high school. I like hangin' out. I'm Tiny Rick!
Summer: But what if the you that likes it isn't you?
Both: [beat, laugh out loud] Oh, Summer!
Morty: It's just Rick in a younger body! What's the-what's-what's-what's... what's the problem?
Summer: Look at his art, Morty!
Tiny Rick: I've got an emo streak. It's part what makes me so rad.
Summer: Why does it say "Help me Morty and Summer!"?!
Tiny Rick: [crumbles, throws paper] Come on, Summer, that's just the title of the art. Why was Knight Rider called Knight Rider? The car's name was KITT. Nobody rode Michael Knight. You're overthinkin' it, Summer. I'm Tiny Rick!!
Summer: Grandpa, I think that when you put your mind into this body's young brain, it did what young brains do—it shoved the bad thoughts into the back and put a large wall around them. But those bad thoughts are the real Rick. The fact that you're old, the fact that we're all going to die one day, the fact that the universe is so big, nothing in it matters—those facts are who you are! So you're trapped in there and you can only come out in the form of Tiny Rick's teen angst!
Tiny Rick: Well, Summer, I hear Toby Matthews isn't into psycho chicks. Can't think of anyone that is. I'll see you motherfuckas at the dance! Tiny Rick!
Summer: Morty, you have to help me!
Morty: Summer, he's happy! I'm happy! I-I-Is that why you're doing this?! You don't want me and Rick to be happy?!
Summer: No!
Morty: Well, then get your shit together! Get it all together and put it in a backpack—all your shit, so it's together. [leaves, then comes back] And if you gotta take it somewhere, take it somewhere, you know? Take it to the shit store and sell it, o-or put it in a shit museum. I don't care what you do! You just gotta to get it together! [leaves, then comes back again] Get your shit together. [leaves]
%
Rick: Will you fix your marriage or get a divorce already?
Jerry: Well, we tried a couples' therapist.
Rick: That's Earth therapy. You might as well ask a horse to fix a merry-go-round. I mean, he'll try his best, but mostly, he's just gonna get horrified.
%
Rick: Alright everyone! Here’s a new dance I made! It’s called “Ooh! Let Me Out!” [Rick starts dancing and singing] Let me out! Let me out! This is not a dance! I’m begging for help, I’m pleading for help! Please come let me out! [Several people join Rick and sing with him] Let me out! Let me out! This is not a dance! I’m begging for help, I’m pleading for help! Please come let me out! I’m dying in a vat in the gara-a-age! [everyone cheers]
%
[at a Transylvanian-like castle, a nude vampire rises from a pool of blood and is clothed by robed figures awaiting his woman prey]
Servant: Master.
Vampire: Speak.
Servant: Coach Feratu's presence was discovered by the humans. He has been destroyed.
Vampire: No bother. The mortals shall soon— I'm sorry, what did you say his name was?
Servant: Coach Feratu.
Vampire: Coach Feratu? That was his real name? Like, his actual vampire name?
Servant: No, no, no, no. His vampire name was Balik Alistane.
Vampire: Why the fuck would he name himself after a famous vampire movie?! Was he doing a bit?!
Servant: I do not know, Your Unholiness.
Vampire: Jesus fucking Christ! From now on, no more of this clever-name bullshit. When a vampire is pretending to be a human, they can just call themselves Alan Jefferson or something like that. [to robed figures] It's crazy, right? I mean, am I being an asshole?! Okay, I feel like everybody in the room is looking at me like I'm the buzzkill. I'm not? [the robed figures shake their heads] Good, okay. Great. [grabs woman, roars and chomps her neck with blood everywhere]
%
Rick: [regarding the Eyehole Man] You gotta be careful, Morty. If that guy catches you with a box of his Eyeholes, he comes bursting in through a window and just starts kicking the shit out of you. But it's worth the risk. They melt in your mouth, Morty. They're delicious.
%
Jerry: W..where am I?
Alien Doctor: Relax, Mr. Smith. You're in an alien hospital. I mean, to you, it's an alien hospital. To me, you're just in a hospital. There's another matter we need to discuss with you.
Jerry: Okay.
Ambassador: An hour ago, Shrimply Pibbles, the galaxy's most influential civil rights leader, was brought to this hospital's emergency room where he is currently fighting for his life.
Jerry: My God!
Ambassador: Mr. Smith, Shrimply Pibbles' life can be saved... if we replace his heart with your human penis.
Jerry: I see... Wait, what?! [the doctor presents an anatomical hologram to Jerry]
Alien Doctor: It's perfect. The configuration of veins, the ratio of thickness to elasticity, the delicate asymmetry of what you call your balls—and with relatively few adjustments, your genitals can be moulded into a functioning heart for the most important man in the universe.
Jerry: Yeah, but, I mean—
Yarp: Oh, forget it! I told you this was a waste of time!
Ambassador: Have respect, Yarp. The Earth man's world is tiny and undeveloped. He knows nothing of the genocides of Clorgon, or the tragic events of 65.3432.23/14.
Shrimply Pibbles: And even if he did, he wouldn't comprehend them. I've dwelt among the humans. Their entire culture is built around their penises. It's funny to say they are small. It's funny to say they are big. I've been at parties where humans held bottles, pencils, thermoses in front of themselves and called out, "Hey, look at me. I'm Mr. So-and-So Dick. I've got such-as-such for a penis." I never saw it fail to get a laugh.
Jerry: All right! That's enough! You are talking about my species! We understand genocide! We do it sometimes!
Ambassador: Then you would give your penis so that Shrimply Pibbles might live?
Yarp: Stop asking!
Jerry: Yes, I will! That's right, assholes! Take my penis. Take it all!! And tell Shrimply Pibbles that when the galaxy came calling, Jerry Smith from Earth didn't flinch!
%
Lil' Bits Guy: Hey, listen. Is your mouth tiny and small? Then why don't you come down to Lil' Bits...
Voice: Lil' Bits...
Lil' Bits Guy: ...wh-where the food is tiny? It looks like regular food, but really tiny. You can put it in your mouth and eat it. Nothing gets stuck in your lips. It's just tiny and tiny and fit right— [chuckles] fits right in.
Voice: Lil' Bits...
Lil' Bits Guy: We got tiny lasagna, tiny pizza, tiny pie. Mmm! Little tiny... fried eggs. Oh, shit! We got tiny people.
Voice: Lil' Bits...
Lil' Bits Guy: You hungry? Come on down.
Voice: Lil' Bits...
Lil' Bits Guy: Eat some fucking shit, you fucking stupid bitch. [chuckles] Just kiddin'.
%
Announcer: It's the Opposite News with Michael Thompson!
Michael Thompson: Hey, everybody, it's me, Michael Thompson. Today the Pope didn't get killed. He's perfectly fine, and he's on vacation in Aruba. In other opposite news...
Morty: Hey, Rick, what's the deal with this guy? W-Why is his body, like, sloping off to the right side of the screen like that?
Rick: I don't know, Morty. Let's see what else is on, huh? [changes channel]
Pichael Thompson: Hey, welcome to Cooking Things. I'm Pichael Thompson.
Morty: Hey, wait a minute, Rick! This guy's body is, like, sloping down and leaning off to screen left!
Rick: Oh my God, and his name's Pichael!
Pichael Thompson: I'm cooking a little bit of this, I'm gonna cook a little bit of that. Oh-ho-ho, hey! [drags conjoined Michael] Stop tugging, Michael!
Morty: Oh my God! Siamese twins! They're-they're Siamese twins!
Michael Thompson: You quit tugging! I-I'm in the middle of my news!
Pichael Thompson: Oh, oh, it's always about you, isn't it? Can you believe this guy, ladies and gentlemen? He's got his own news show, he's got a normal name!
Morty: Hey, flip back to the news!
Rick: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Pichael Thompson: You could tell our parents started with naming with him. [the news camera backs away, showing them in Pichael's side] It's like, "Oh, Michael." I ha— They had that one planned before they even got pregnant, I bet.
Summer: I don't wanna be that girl, but maybe there would be less conflict if they didn't shoot their shows at the same time?
Rick: Oh, Summer, you have no idea how much money that must save production.
Pichael Thompson: And then they found out I was attached along for the ride and they said, "Ah, shit. Well, just fuck it, call him Pichael."
Michael Thompson: [throws papers at Pichael's face] Fuck you, Pichael! You're a fucking piece of shit!
%
Summer: Gross! Does all interdimensional TV have to rely on juvenile violence?
Morty: Well, Summer, maybe people that create things aren't concerned with your delicate sensibilities, y'know? M-Maybe the species that communicate with each other through the filter of your comfort are less evolved than the ones that just communicate! Maybe your problems are your own to deal with, and maybe the public giving a shit about your feelings is a one-way ticket to extinction!!
Rick: Geez, Morty. I take it Catherine Hefflefinger hasn't texted you back yet.
Morty: I don't wanna talk about it.
%
Rick: Hey, Muchacho, does your planet have wiper fluid yet or you gonna freak out and start worshipping us?
Villager: The general store ought to have what you need.
Rick: Thanks.
Villager: Of course, you'll be wanting to be gone from here by sundown.
Rick: Yeah, sure thing. Wait a minute, what? Why?
Villager: Sundown is when the Festival begins.
Morty: The Festival?
Villager: Ooh, well, for millennia, our society has been free of crime and war, livin' in perfect peace.
Rick: Oh! I know what this is! You've been able to sustain world peace because you have one night a year, where you all run around robbing and murdering each other without consequence!
Villager: That's right!
Morty: What?!
Rick: It's like The Purge, Morty! Th-That movie, The Purge?
Villager: Oh, have you been here before?
Rick: No, no, but I've been to a few planets with the same gimmick. Y'know, sometimes it's called the Cleansing or the Red Time. There was this one world that called it just Murder Night. I-It's a purge planet. They're peaceful and then, y'know, they just purge.
Morty: Th-That's horrible!
Rick: Yeah. [beat] You wanna check it out?
%
Rick: Morty, if I can get to the top of that lighthouse, I can send a beacon and your sister can launch our package. Just remember, if there's people in there and they try to purge us, we got to purge them first.
Morty: We're not purging anyone, Rick, all right?! W-will you stop it?!
Rick: Morty, if we're gonna survive tonight, you're gonna need to harness your repressed rage.
Morty: I don't have any!!
Rick: Spoken like a person with repressed rage.
%
[Arthricia crawls out of Rick's ship before being confronted by Rick and Morty in power armor. Rick aims at her]
Arthricia: Wait, stop! Please don't kill me! I-I never intended to harm you, I swear! I am trying to end the Festival!
Rick: Wh-what-what do you mean?
Arthricia: I was going to use your ship to destroy the rich assholes that run our society and save my people from the horrors of this yearly Festival!
Morty: Fuck that, Rick! We gotta kill her! Kill her! Kill her!!
Rick: Whoa! Geez, Morty, purge it down a little.
Morty: "Purge! Don't purge?!" You're sending me mixed messages, Rick!
Rick: Morty, yehh-you're acting like a ehh-freaking lunatic. Calm down.
Morty: Screw you, Rick! I'll purge you too, you old... rickety piece of crap! This has been a long time coming! I'm gonna rip your fucking guts out and smear 'em all over your face! I ain't taking no sh—ahh!! [gets zapped by Rick]
Rick: Okay, s-sorry about that. Now, where are these rich people?
%
Rick: Uh, hi, everybody. I'm Ri-iick. You know, when I first met Bird Person, he was... uh... ["trail off, crumple up notes, ad-libs"; he does exactly that] Listen, I'm not the nicest guy in the universe, because I'm the smartest. And being nice is something stupid people would do to hedge their bets. Now, I haven't been exactly subtle about how little I trust marriage. I couldn't make it work and I could turn a black hole into a sun, so... at a certain point, you gotta ask yourself—what are the odds this is legit and not just some big lie we're all telling ourselves because we're afraid to die alone? Because, y'know, that's exactly how we all die—alone.
Morty/Summer: Oh, boy. / Oh...
Beth/Jerry: Oh, Dad... / Jesus.
Rick: But, but... here's the thing. Bird Person is my best friend, and if he loves Tammy, well, then I love Tammy too. [all cheer and applause; Squanchy throws his "Rick's BFF" bracelet] To friendship, to love, and to my greatest adventure yet—opening myself up to others.
People: Cheers! Hear, hear! Cheers!
Morty: Right! Cheers to that, motherfuckers!
Tammy: Thank you, Rick. That was beautiful. Gosh, I look around this room and I think, "Uh, Tammy, you're a high-school senior from the planet Earth and you're marrying a 40-year-old bird person? Like, what?!" [everyone laughs]
Summer: Yeah, Tammy!
Tammy: But then I think, you know, in a lot of ways, I'm not a high-school senior from the planet Earth. In a lot of ways, what I really am is a deep-cover agent for the Galactic Federation, and you guys are a group of wanted criminals and this entire building is, in a certain sense, surrounded.
Morty/Summer: Huh? / What?
Rick: Oh, shit.
Beth: I... don't get the metaphor.
Jerry: I'll explain it to you later.
Tammy: [holds a rifle] Everyone here is under arrest for crimes against the Federation!
Alien: L'chaim!
Bird Person: [stands up] Tammy, what are you doing?
Tammy: [aims at him] Sit your bird ass down!
Bird Person: Tammy?
[Tammy shoots Bird Person numerous times until he falls on the floor, cawing weakly and bleeding out]
Rick: BIRD PERSON!!! NOOOOO!!!!
%
Jerry: Uh, Rick, is there anything you'd like to tell us about your relationship with this... previously unknown galactic government?
Rick: All the important points seem pretty clear, no? They think they control the galaxy, I disagree. Don't hate the player, hate the game, son.
Jerry: How could you be so dishonest with this family?!
Rick: Oh! Oh, should I have been more open and trusting and loving like, oh, I don't know—my now dead best friend?! Or your daughter, who is BFFs with an intergalactic narc?!
Summer: Hey, Tammy was cool!
Rick: And now we know why!
Summer: Because of you!
Rick: Fuck you, Summer! And fuck the government! And fuck me for letting my guard down, which I will NEVER DO AGAIN.
Morty: Geez, Rick! You can't say f— "'f' you" to your granddaughter!
Rick: I just did, Morty. Here's dessert. Fuck you.
Beth: Look, I think we've all had a tough wedding. Actually, the wedding was beautiful. The reception got out of hand. Anyway, I say we go home, sleep it off, and have a family meeting in the morning.
Rick: Yeah, about going home, we can't—ever.
Smiths: Wait, what?! / What?!
Rick: Oh, these guys are looking for us now. Earth will be swarming with them.
Jerry: Us?!
Beth: Jerry—
Jerry: I want to go home!
Rick: Look, anyone that wants to go back to Earth is free to go back to Earth. But here's what's gonna happen. Alien bureaucrats are gonna arrest you. They're gonna put the intergalactic equivalent of ehh-jumper cables under your nuts and/or labia and hook 'em up to an alien car battery until you tell them where I am—which I guarantee you you're not gonna know, which I guarantee they won't believe. So who's homesick? By applause. [Summer starts crying] Ladies? Anybody?
Summer: What are we going to do?! Where are we going to live?!
Rick: Take it easy. This is a blessing in disguise. Fuck Earth. You realize our planet's name means dirt, right? We'll find a new world. Computer, how many planets in the Milky Way are at least 90 percent similar to Earth?
Computer: [calculates] "765 known planets."
Rick: How many of those are outside federal jurisdiction?
Computer: "Three."
Rick: See? Our cup runneth over. Now, who wants to go shopping for a brand-new motherfuckin' world?! All right!
%
Jerry: Okay, now that he's gone, can we please talk about our situation?
Morty: Dad, you can't talk about people behind their back. Y'know, it's a small world.
Jerry: Please, he's in the south pole! And we need to have a serious conversation!
[Rick strolls casually past a terrain of pine and palm trees before taking off his coat. He puts it on again through a rain cloud. He arrives at the south pole, plants the flag into the snow]
Rick: South pole discovered, baby! Oohhhh!! Oh, fuck, an ice cave?! Shit! [crawls into it] Things just keep on getting better! [reaches a heated area, starts shimmying at the side] Wow, it's the planet's core.
Jerry: [heard above] I'm just saying, we keep acting like there's only two options, [Rick climbs up and eavesdrops underneath the cabin floorboards] but there's not. So, yes, if we went back to Earth, as long as Rick was out there, they'd want to interrogate us. But, and this is purely hypothetical—what if we turned your father into the government?
Beth: Jerry, so help me God, if you ever bring this up again, no more bacon!
Jerry: There already is no more bacon! This world sucks!! Our life sucks!! Why are doing this for someone that would never do anything for anyone but himself?!
Morty: That's not the point, Dad! We love Rick! ..F-F-For the most part.
Summer: Yeah, you don't love people in hopes of a reward, Dad. You love them unconditionally.
Beth: That's very good, kids. I'm proud of you.
Jerry: Okay, so let me get this straight. For the rest of your lives, no matter how much it hurts you, no matter how much it destroys our children's futures, we're gonna do whatever Rick wants, whenever he wants?
Morty/Summer/Beth: Yes.
Jerry: Why!?!
Beth: Because I don't want him to leave again, you dumb asshole!!%
%
[Morty sleeps in his bed, Rick enters the bedroom]
Rick: Morty! Morty, y-you gotta wake up, Morty! I need your help. The game developers have put a... whole bunch of portals all over the house and... we gotta get rid of 'em all.
Morty: What're you talking about, Rick?! I mean, that doesn't even make sense about how... th-th-there'd be a bunch of portals all around the house, y'know!
Rick: Listen, Morty, this is just a licensed game, Morty. It's a licensed game, it had t— get— made quick. W-We gotta deal with it, Morty, we gotta roll our sleeves up and we gotta get down there to the garage, Morty.
Morty: Oh, geez! Wh— Is that where all the portals are?
Rick: Yeah! There's all kinds of stuff, Morty, you gotta come with me, come on!
[cutaway to the garage with lasers phasing through the two portals]
Rick: What'd I tell you, Morty? There's two portals right here, see? We gotta figure this thing out, Morty.
Morty: All right, so what are we gonna do?
Rick: All right, well... I'm gonna modify this vaccum to suck up the portals, Morty.
Morty: What do you need me to do?
Rick: You gotta go and find me two items, Morty. Gotta go click all around the house... just keep clicking until you find me two items.
Morty: O-O-Oh-oh, okay. Well, w-what are the items?
Rick: I need a glass lens... and I need a white cloth filter, Morty! Y-Y-You think you can handle that, Morty?!
Morty: Geez, yeah! Okay, easy, Rick!
Rick: All right! We can do it! We're gonna work together, do it! Hurry, Morty! Hurry!!
Morty: Oh, geez! Oh my God! H-Here I go!
%
Morty: [gets a sock on the ground] I got a sock! Di-did I do it? D-Di-did I win the game?
Rick: No, Morty, don't be an idiot! T-Th-the game developers just wanted to toss you a bone here, so they threw a sock in on the ground so you could pick it up real quick in the game and... feel all good about yourself. It's got— It's got nothing to do with anything, Morty.
%
Morty: All right, Rick, close your eyes because... I'm-I'm-I'm peeling it all off! I'm getting these underwears off and I'm gonna go free!
Rick: Oh my Go— Mo— what's the matter with you, Morty?! That's disgusting, Morty!! I don't wanna see y-y-your naked body!! Oh my G— I'm gonna— I'm gonna puke, Morty! I...I'm gonna throw up everywhere!
Morty: Shut up, Rick! Y'know... I-I-It's nothing you haven't seen before, Rick!
Rick: Oh my God, Morty! [retching] Ugh, I'm gonna throw up, Morty!
Morty: Come on, Rick, just... quit being so dramatic!
%
Rick: Oh my God, Morty! We did it! We just sucked up all the portals, Morty! We did it!
Morty: Oh my God, we did it! Yay! W-We beat the game! We beat the whole game, we beat it! We beat this game!
Rick: We beat the game, Morty!
Morty: We beat thi... we beat it! We beat the game!
Rick: Whattaya think— Whattaya thinks gonna happen next, Morty?
Morty: I don't know! I mean, like... Do-don't we get like a-a free T-shirt or... some kind of, maybe some trophy, dollars or... like a million trophies or something?
Rick: Prepare to be disappointed, Morty. All we get... is a bunch of credits of people you don't know, Morty! Look at 'em roll! That's all you get for all this... work we did, Morty!
Morty: Geez, Rick! I mean... this whole time we've been... clicking on s— a bunch of crap and doing all this stuff, and all we get is a bunch of credits?!
Rick: Morty! Y'know... you gotta learn something about life, Morty. Sometimes... y'know, you're gonna click around a lot, and all you're gonna get is a stupid credit sequence, Morty!
Morty: Aw man, Rick! Why— y'know... I-I-It would be bad enough just to... find out that we're all gonna get is a credit sequence but you don't gotta be mean to me on top of it, y'know!
Rick: Shut up, Morty! I'm gonna really— I'm gonna— I'm gonna... beat you up, Morty!
Morty: Wh-what?! What're you talking about?!
Rick: I'm beating you up, Morty! That's what people get! That's the— that's the reward! They get to see me beat you up!
Morty: No! [Rick punches his face] Ow! Ow! Ow, Rick! Ow, that hurts!
Rick: Beating you up, Morty!
Morty: Why!?!
%
Morty: Okay, whew! Rick can't miss me here! I mean, I'm right dead middle in the microscope lens. Oh! Here he comes!
Rick: [walks by] Ahhh... This smells like another good chapter of the "Rick and Morty" game.
Morty: Rick! Rick! Down here! Rick!!
Rick: I'm just gonna keep talking, I can't hear anything. [takes petri dish with Morty]
Morty: Rick! Rick! Ohh!
Rick: The developers really... pulled all the stops on this one.
Morty: Rick!
Rick: I'm taking this petri dish and I'm putting it in the refrigerator.
Morty: No! Look in the microscope, Rick! No! [Rick shuts refrigerator]
Rick: All right, I'm outta here.
Morty: How could he not hear me or see me?! Oh man, I gotta find a way outta here! Oooh! Boy, it sure is chilly in here! It's a refrigerator, so... I guess that would make sense to be cold.
%
Morty: What the hell are you?! Like, some kind of weird... bizarre Rick monster?!
Seahorse Rick: No, no, no, no, no, no, th-the developers didn't have time to draw a new character, so they just... pasted Rick's head onto a seahorse that they were working on for another game.
Morty: Oh-ohh... okay, well, that would make sense! I mean... I-Is there any way you can help me get back to my regular size?
Seahorse Rick: Yes, I-I can give you a really good hint. Citric acid. If you just— if you mix some citric acid into the petri dish, it'll-it'll reverse the effects of the stuff in there and then you can eat it and... you'll grow real... back to normal.
Morty: Oh my God! Oh! Oh, that's a really good hint! That's a really— that makes it really simple! Okay, I'm gonna go... do it! See ya!
Seahorse Rick: See you later! Good luck!
%
Morty: Hey! I did it! Th-that weird, disgusting, nasty, smelly mutant Rick seahorse character was right! H-He saved me!
Seahorse Rick: [groaning, gasps] Help! Help me! Ogh, I can't breathe!
Morty: Oh, geez! Wh-wh-what do I do?! H-Hang in there, do-don't you die on me!
Seahorse Rick: Ogh, I can't... dying, I'm d— I'm dying now! Ugh!
Rick: Oh my God, Morty! What did you do to my weird... little seahorse version of me?!
Morty: Wh-whoa, I'm sorry, Rick! Don't be mad at me!
Rick: Oh my God, Morty, you killed him! You killed— You realize what you've done, Morty?!
Morty: No, what did I do?!
Rick: You beat the... Chapter 2 of the "Rick and Morty Adventure Game"! Good work, Morty!
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, whew! I thought you're... I thought like maybe that was like a clone version of you or maybe it was like a backup drive with all your memories or something?
Rick: No, no, Morty, Morty, it's fine. We beat the game, that's all that means.
Morty: Oh, boy, I was... You really had me going there, Rick.
Rick: Yeah, Morty. Guess what we could do now?
Morty: What?
Rick: We're gonna eat... cake. Here, have some cake, Morty.
Morty: Ohh! Oh my God, I love that! That's great, we get to eat cake!
Rick: Yeah, here's-here's— here's some... cinematic images of us eating cake.
Morty: Oh, look at those! That's like... from next-generation graphics.
Rick: Yeah, it's really great. Now, guess what happens. I'm gonna beat you up, Morty! [queue next image of him shoving a piece of cake into Morty's mouth]
Morty: You're gonna beat me up?!
Rick: That's right, Morty! I'm beating you up now! [punching sounds are heard]
Morty: Ohh! Ow! Ohh, I should've known better than to think that we would just eat cake, and now you're beating me up!
Rick: Uhh! Take that! Uh, you little rapscallion!
Morty: You tricked me with the cake!
Rick: That's what you get, Morty, for beating the game! Chapter 2! Chapter 2, "Rick and Morty Game"!
Morty: No! Oh my God!
%
Rick: Look what I just got on my inventory! Motherflippin' tranquillizer gun, bitch! Someone's gonna get tranquillized! Maybe, I dunno, it might— who knows if there's any actual... use for this thing, but nice to have it. Nice to have in my inventory.
%
Rick: Ugh, God, my ears are bleeding... make it stop!
Morty: Rick, you're awake!
Rick: Why did you wake me up for, Morty?! I-I was hoping to sleep through this chapter of the... "Rick and Morty" adventure... series.
Summer: Well, too bad!! You've gotta get me straightened out first!
Rick: Ooh, boy! Look at Summer, huh, Morty? She's all jumbled up, y'know, on account of my brand-new invention that I just created: the Jumbler. [name pops up] The Jumbler got its name because it does something that I like to call jumbling. What it doesn't—
Summer: Yeah, yeah, I get it! Now please tell me it can unjumble too!
Rick: Yeah, no problem. I just need a... a photo of you before you were jumbled.
Summer: There's a picture of me in the closet. The, um... locked closet.
Rick: Wh-why would you lock your closet?! What's the matter with you, you're trying to draw this thing out?!
Summer: We just need to figure out a way to get in there!
Rick: Listen, I'm sure there's some convoluted adventure gamey way we can do that, but I'm just gonna cut to the chase and remove one of Morty's dimensions, so he only has width and no height. Get ready, Morty!
Morty: Wait! Wait, hold on, Rick! [shrinks into a line]
Rick: Too late, Morty, you're one-dimensional now! Episode 3: Rick and Morty Adventure 1-D! Now get in there, Morty!
%
Morty: Here it is, Rick, I got the key!
Rick: Oh, good job, Morty, you did it! You won the game! E-ehhpi...sode 3, you did it. Roll the credits! Game over! E-End of the video game! We all beat it!
Summer: What're you talking about?! [stop credits] Look at me!
Morty: Y-Yeah, what about me?! We haven't win yet, you gotta— use that gizmo and give me my dimension back! What's the matter with you?!
Rick: It doesn't work that way, Morty. It only removes Ds. You're gonna have to find another way to... give you that extra D back.
Summer: What about me?! I'm all jumbled up still! I can't live like this in a normal world!
Rick: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll fix you too. We just gotta get a picture of you, and some DNA before you got jumbled. So hey, I guess I'm playing the game now! It's a whole new level of fun! You can control me now. Check me out, I'm part of the... contr— controls.
%
Rick: Morty! Here's your D back. Half a double-D bra, get it? Aren't these game developers clever? I mean, it's a pun-based solution but... in video game world it makes complete sense, so here's your D back, Morty. Take it and swallow it.
[Rick drops half-D bra onto Morty; turns him back to his normal state]
Morty: Hey! [gulps] Hey, wow! I'm back to regular-old two dimensions, Rick! You did it! I-I-It's just a half a bra! Who would've thought?
Rick: That's right! I won the game, Morty! Episode 3 has come to an end! And here go the credits! This is it, baby! We got that— get the credits on the train!
Summer: No credits! No credits! Stop the credits! No!!
Rick: Yeah, alright, okay. I gotta unjumble Summer first. Jeez, you people... You're a pain in my ass.
%
Morty: Boy, oh boy, I sure do love me a good alien skin cheese sandwich. [warbling sounds are heard] What was that? Huh. I wonder what Rick's up to in the garage. [see two socks holding Rick at gunpoint]
Sock 1: WHERE IS HE!?! WHAT DID YOU DO WITH HIM!?!
Morty: What the hell's going on in here, Rick?
Rick: Morty! You gotta help me!
Sock 2: WHERE'S OUR SOCK FRIE-E-E-END!?!
Sock 1: WE KNOW HE WAS IN THE OTHER CHAPTERS IN YOUR INVENTORY!!
Rick: Morty, grab those wire cutters for me, quick!
Morty: Okay, I'm gonna get the wire cutters!
Sock 1: Hold it right there, you're coming with us!
Morty: Auuh!! Help me, Rick! [gets warped with the socks]
Rick: My wire cutters! Ah, geez, those are my only pair. I need those to fix my portal gun, but now... Morty has 'em and he's taken away. Oh, this sounds like the perfect setup for... Chapter 4 of the "Rick and Morty Puzzle Adventure Game." ["*not the actual title"] Buckle into your seatbelts for a r-ride of your life, 'cause now you can control us separately.
Morty: Rick?! How can I hear you?! Wh-what's going on?!
Rick: Morty, I installed audio communication devices in our ears.
Morty: Wow, Rick! That's pretty great stuff.
Rick: Where are you, Morty?
Morty: I-I think I'm in some kind of sock jail. There's a dryer in here, like the one in the garage, but... that's it.
Rick: You gotta get me those wire cutters back, and then I'll be able to get you outta— back home outta there, and then everything'll be— that'll be the end of the game, Morty.
Morty: Okay, Rick! Let's do it!
%

